Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we going to create the budget in function.
All right, so so far, we know whenever we insert stuff or bites inside our expense structure, we
can track those expenses, but what about the income?
So we need to create the budget in function as well.
And this part, I'm sure, is really, really clear for you guys.
But inside this budget out.
What do we what we are lacking is whenever I enter something and when I click on the ad, we cannot
really see our budget without income or expense to be loaded here inside the list.
Basically, we are not updating the UI, so I'm going to create an update UI function and I'm going
to call it here.
Well, we are going to create it in our next lecture, but we are going to call it here and we are going
to create a clear input function as well.
Now, why clear input?
We know the update UI.
So if I come here and if I say salary.
So are three, and if I type 1000, so whenever I click on it, you can see that this these then put
is reset.
The input is reset has been reset.
Yeah, the input has been reset.
It means that nothing is written inside the input anymore and the UI has been updated.
So the update UI function is responsible for this, responsible for this income, for this chart, for
the balance, for the outcome, for the for the expense and for the all.
So the update UI function is going to be the largest function that we would have.
Now, whenever we want to clear the inputs we are, we want to clear two kinds of inputs.
The first one is going to be the title and the second one is going to be the amount.
So whenever the user hits enter or clicks on the add key, we want to clear that the input is going
to be saved inside the update UI function and we want to clear out of that.
So instead of calling this function twice, I'm just going to pass in an array as an argument.
The first input that I want to be clear, it is going to be expensed title.
We are going to create this function, don't worry about it.
And the second one is going to be expense amount.
So now that this budget out is created, we are going to go ahead and we are going to create the budget.
And now the budget in is going to be a replica of that function because we are going to have basically
everything is going to be the same here, except we will create an income and we are going to grab the
income title and income amount.
All right.
I'm not going to copy it.
I'm just going to go ahead and create it so you know where everything comes.
All right, so let's go ahead and let's create the function it is budget in and we are going to pass
and the e the event object because we need it to prevent the default behavior.
So let's grab the E and say prevent default.
Save it.
Prevent default.
Right.
Correct.
And now let's check if the income title and the income amount are not empty, if they're empty, we
do not want to run anything.
So if they're empty, we do not want to create an object and push it to the interest.
Basically, we don't want to do anything.
So we are going to say the same kind of statement, income title.
Dot value returns, false or it means that it is zero.
It is like empty or the income amount data value.
Then what do we want to do?
We want to return from the function.
That's it.
We don't want the function to run.
So.
So this statement, this expression is going to return to true.
All right.
But whenever you add in, you tag another, not Anani quality.
It's like a negative sign.
So negative times positive you are going to end with and we are going to end up with a negative.
So if this is false, we want to return from the function and this is a logical or operator, this this
entire condition becomes true with us when at least one side of this expression is true.
All right.
So when this is false.
Well, actually, when there is nothing inside this income title, it means that the income title,
that value is false, false times in negative or false times false.
You are going to end up with a positive and this condition is true.
So we are going to return from the function.
The same thing is going to go for the income amount.
I'm going to explain it, of course.
So if incomer amount is false, it means there is nothing inside of it and then we are going to multiply
that false by another false.
We are going to end up with the true here.
So whenever one side of this logical operator or operator is true, this entire condition becomes true
and this func, this return key is going to run and it is going to prevent this entire function from
running.
So we are either going to have one of the inputs being empty or both of them being empty.
And in all three conditions, the function is going to return.
Let's create the object it is we are going to name it income, of course, the type.
Is going to be income and the title now, this is the object that are in the first lecture, I think
it was the first lecture.
This is exactly that object that I showed you inside the local storage, inside the allies.
This is the same object.
So we are going to push this object to our enteral entry list and then the entry list is going to be
pushed to the ellis'.
So we are going to grab our income title and we are going to grab the value from their.
We are going to do the same thing for amount as we did for expense, we are going to grab our parts,
we could go parts, float or pass integer.
I'm going to do pass.
Float doesn't really matter.
And we are going to say income amount, dot value.
All right, so now we have this let's push it to the centralists array, because we have only one or
right.
And inside that array, we might have an expense.
We might have an income.
Well, you might have a combination.
We might have a combination of both of them.
So entry list, dot, push, push this item in.
We are going to say income just passed the name.
And finally, we are going to grab our update UI function and we are going to call it here, and after
the user inserts done inserting in the field, we are going to clear that.
So in this case, we are going to clear the income title first and then the income amount.
All right, so now that these functions they're created, I can just go ahead and test this out, console
that log.
We could say income and then I could say type of now, because in our previous lecture, the reason
that this doesn't work, didn't work is because this is used for selecting the index, selecting an
item inside an array, using their index, which is not like a proper method, a proper property of
object, because incoming is an object.
We should use the DOT notation.
So we are going to set amount type of amount.
Let's come here now, in case you're wondering about this, if I come in here and if I click here,
this is like same site, same, say, LAX, it is basically a problem with the font.
Awesome that we have inserted, apparently Google Chrome.
Dev, change something up.
You know, it's really complicated.
I tend not to worry about it.
And this exactly says where were the problem?
What is the cookie.
It's from font.
Awesome.
So just do not pay attention to it.
Salary.
Let's enter 1100 and whenever I click on the add it does not run.
So let's go ahead and let's see.
So we have income.
Income is pushed to the entry list.
OK, this is the event is the event was oops.
The event was commented out of Putin salary, salary, so I don't know, I can add and we can say that.
We can see here the type this is income title, salary and type of operator returns, no, don't worry
about this one.
We are going to fix that.
So this is it for oops, what am I doing?
Penta taskbar closed the window.
OK, so we are done with our budget out and budget and functions in our next lecture.
We are we will be starting creating the update UI and the clear inputs function.
See you guys then.